So, let's dive a little
deeper into stage one.
I've really been sort of very high
level with it so far and basically all
I've told you is it's just all the stuff
you're doing up to your first release.
So, I actually think the focus for
your stage one is really simple and
I've used this phrase
a few times with you, but
I like this idea of discovering
the right version one.
If you're in the business of
software you know this, right?
It's really risky.
The biggest risk in software is that
you've just built the wrong thing.
[LAUGH] So, you do that and you've
spent so much money moving down a path,
now you have gotta to come back.
You've gotta rediscover,
it's expensive, right?
It's a lot of risks.
And I think that's actually
true in design system work to.
What's funny about it is
most people that I talk to,
they just start by building a button,
they start even building colors.
They don't think about how to start,
they just start.
And so,
I think this is where everything begins.
This is where you get to model
that you're gonna be a part
of the organization that
engages with your subscribers.
And so
your challenge here is balancing that,
we gotta release something quickly and
we gotta show some value, right.
We want to try to make this happen fairly
quickly and we want to make sure that
the things that we choose to build
are going to show value out of the gate.
The way you succeed with that
is you shape the project, right?
You shape your early system approach,
to show value to the right
potential subscribers.
And I want to talk first a little bit
about how to do that because I think you
have to start with your audience.
So this is a little bit controversial,
I think, this this approach, but
I'm okay with it and I would just say,
do it on a piece of paper and
then throw it away at the end.
[LAUGH] I like to think about
categorizing potential stakeholders or
subscribers in this way.
So you wanna look around and
you wanna see who has influence inside
the organization and who doesn't.
And then once you understand that, you're
gonna actually try to do the work to
understand who's with me in
this approach and who's not.
Who's an advocate for the system work,
for the approach of a design system, and
who's on the really extreme side,
a potential saboteur, right?
Who's gonna do everything
they can to make this fail?
And as you start talking to folks,
you kinda just generally sort of
put them in these quadrants, right?
So you can start to think, you know what?
That VP of engineering
was really against this.
He feels like or she feels like we've
got all the systems in place we need.
They've got a lot of influence, but
they're also really not a part of this,
they're not an advocate.
So I've put them in that top left,
high influence, potential saboteur, right?
And once you've done this,
you can start to really easily see,
I wanna start with the folks
who have some influence.
So I'm gonna look at
the top of this chart.
And then, it's it's funny
cuz I think human nature is,
let's just avoid the conflict, right?
I'm gonna focus in on my
advocates that have influence and
we're gonna sit around the table and sing
Kumbaya, we're gonna get this work done.
The problem is the real value here is
actually in that top left quadrant.
If you can build some relationships with
folks who don't understand the value yet,
but who also have influence, that's
really where you should be focusing.
Cuz if you can just take one of these
folks and move them into that top right
quadrant, you're really gonna protect
yourself from a lot of the risk,
right of this not working.
So the way you do this is you
sit down with those folks,
you understand their goals, you understand
their frustrations, and you go back and
you try to tell that story of
the system solving those problems.
It's sometimes hard, right?
Cuz these conversations can be tense, and
sometimes they just don't
even want to meet with you.
But there's kind of a little bit of
a trick that I use in those meetings I'll
ask them.
This is an old kind of sales
tactic that if you're in sales or
if you've ever been in sales,
people will use this.
You just try to say something like
there's some question kinda like this.
Imagine that it's a year from today, and
this new design system is live your
team is using it and loves it so
much that you just wanted to take
me to lunch to say thank you.
Just describe for me that future state.
How did we get there?
What is that moment like?
What is the system doing for you, right?
This takes away all the sorta day to day
grind of all the reasons the politics and
it just helps them and you kinda to
imagine that future successful state.
I love this because you will get from
them if they're willing to participate,
all right?
And they probably won't all be but
the ones that will,
you'll get from them what it
is that you actually need
the system to do in order for
them to become an advocate.
So, now you know, now you can make
a choice is that the direction the system
should go or not, right?
And you can do the evaluation on how
much time will it take to sort of meet
those needs.
This is really powerful, right?
This will change.
If you can do this,
tell that story in an effective way.
You're moving folks who
are potentially gonna stop the work
into people who want
the work to be successful.
That's probably the biggest way that I
would recommend you're looking to in terms
of figuring out what that
first thing should be.
You also have to do the work to kind
of define your subscriber groups.
So, this is like the beginning of
you being able to at some point in
the future track adoption in
an actual valuable, nuanced way.
In order to do that you first have to
understand who are the groups of folks
that could use a system.
Now, this is highly dependent on how
your organization is structured.
So, I'll give you three specific examples
of how you could approach it, but
you'll have to kinda make the connection
to the way your titles and teams and
all that work.
So, one approach is product or
feature driven subscriber groups.
So you might have a group 1,
which is e-commerce web.
So this is the product,
the e-commerce web product.
So anybody who does anything
on this product is a group.
Maybe the iOS shopping app
is another group that you
are gonna attempt to
support as a subscriber.
Or maybe the checkout flow.
So, this is like a feature of
a specific product, right?
The people who are focused on
the checkout flow for E-com,
that's one subscriber group.
So, you can break your subscriber
groups down in this way, product or
feature driven.
Another way to break them down is
discipline-driven groups, right?
So, this is simple.
You might say all of the UI
designers are one subscriber group.
All of the UI developers
are another subscriber group.
All of the product owners, all of the UX
researchers, all the content, you name
all the different disciplines that are
involved in getting interfaces designed
and built and into production, each
one of those could be in this example,
a type of subscriber group for you.
So, that the first one is product or
feature driven.
This one is discipline driven.
And then the third is actually
a combination of those.
So that's where you're thinking
about discipline by product or
discipline by feature.
And some examples, there might be
all of the UI designers that work on
the E-commerce web product, right?
All of the UI devs that are working
in checkout flow of the E-com web.
So, now what you've gotta do is make your
decision on how you want to classify
these groups.
And then just make a list of those groups,
right, and
where they sit in the organization.
In stage one, I spent a lot of time
looking at org charts [LAUGH] that's just
a weird part of this work but because
the system touches all of these different
pieces and parts throughout the
organization, you really do have to have
a good understanding of who sits where and
who reports to who and all of that.
So you're gonna spend some time
looking at the org chart [LAUGH] and
you'll make your own list of here's how
we think about the groups of subscribers.
Once you've done that, you can then do
the work to understand how those groups
track their own metrics, okay?
This is really important, again, for when
you go to try to measure this stuff later.
If you haven't done this, they all
have their own ways of measurements.
They all have their own KPIs or their own
goals that their boss is having them meet.
So, what you need to do is do the work
to understand how they're tracking
that stuff.
It's not your job, actually,
as a design system team to
track the velocity or
efficiency of a product team, right?
Hopefully you can correlate as teams
begin using the system that that metric
improves, but
those teams should be responsible for
measuring their own efficiency.
So, you need to understand
how they do that.
And then you need to have them, or
you need to get access to that data, and
you need to start capturing
baselines in stage one.
Cuz if you can't show how fast, in this
case speed, how fast we used to be,
you're not gonna be able to show
the improvement we've made, right?
So you've gotta capture those baselines.
So, this is sort of the beginnings of you
getting to understand how we can actually
at some point in the future
track this stuff.
Now, I keep using this word discover, so
let's talk a little bit more about that.
Now, we've done the work to sorta
define our subscriber groups.
So, I just have sort of some
generic concepts down here brands
products division, however you have
categorized your subscribers, right?
We're gonna plot those out
along the x axis here.
And however you categorize
your scope in this case,
I'm using that definition
the anatomy of a design system,
from the very first section today,
to say we've got foundational stuff,
we've got tokens, we've got core systems,
we've got components, right?
So, there's assets, documentation and
processes for each of those four layers.
So, that's sort of in general
the scope of a system.
And so what I like to do is take a look
at all of the different potential
systematic approaches that it already
exists within your subscriber groups.
So, I met this woman once I was just
literally looking on LinkedIn for
people who do design system
work in the research,
I've just done a lot of reaching out,
getting to know people.
And I came across this woman who's
title was, design system archaeologist.
And I was like, what the heck is that?
So, I just messaged her,
and we did a call, and
she told me her job, which I love.
It is basically she
just is responsible for
going through all of the work that
subscriber groups are doing and
looking for
really good systematic nuggets of work.
And you might take the approach of saying,
let's build a color system that works for
everybody, right?
That's a really broad approach.
This woman's job was not to to do this,
right?
She was on the design system team.
This is how you would typically start,
a lot of teams start this way,
they might say I'm gonna
build the color system.
Everybody needs colors, so
let's build a color system.
We'll do some tokens and
we'll make this really useful thing.
But instead, she was out there looking for
specific parts of the organization that
had their own color system, right?
Each of these groups probably
has their own stuff, right?
They've got these vertical flows, right?
I've built my own way to handle
the checkout flow in my subscriber group.
But what we're interested in identifying,
is this little color system that
subscriber group one has built, right?
And that's what this woman's job was.
She was out there digging literally,
and talking to folks and
finding really good approaches
that already existed.
But that just weren't made systematically.
So, then the goal becomes, let's take that
little nugget, and we're gonna make that.
We're gonna expand that
horizontally here to work for
all these other subscriber groups, right?
We're gonna build a color
system that works for everyone.
And we're gonna start with
the work of one group.
What's really cool about this is that
you're building trust with this group.
You're making them very much interested
in becoming an adopter of your system.
By default, they're contributing
to your system, [LAUGH] right?
You're building a relationship you're
getting to showcase their work.
And this becomes a nice model for how you
can discover a good way to move forward.
So when you combine this with
the concepts about influence and
sabotage, that's where you can say, okay,
I know this one exact is not for
this work they have a lot of influence.
I'm gonna go take a look at
everybody underneath them..
Let's find something systematic that
we can use as a nugget to start with.
And all of a sudden you're bringing
them into the conversation with you.
Does this make sense as an approach?
Okay, now, again,
this is the ideal, right?
It's possible that you gonna look out and
everything is spaghetti code and
terrible or
there is no systematic approach and
maybe that's why you're
brought in at the beginning.
But start with this, right?
Start by looking, cuz what you'll see is
that the work that it takes to go do this
digging actually helps you build some
rapport, build some relationships anyway,
and you have to do that work regardless,
yeah.
>> Just curious,
in this circumstance is it better to
try to cater the design system to work?
For everyone, so maybe expanding
upon some of the operating so
that it's a little bit more broadly
adopted, or trying to get the individual
teams to focus in and take what
you built out for that one subset.
And try to make it consistent,
I guess in the reverse order.
>> Yeah, maybe this is sort of
the challenge of systems work in general,
right?
It's like, how custom is this?
Am I asking everybody to change
to work towards the way that
I think it should work?
Or am I as a design system team
accommodating more folks with with
the work.
So, everything you're asking
me is culture related.
So, when we get to the culture, I'm wanna
show you specifically how that decision is
actually it's a spectrum of
choices that you have to make,
depending on the culture
of the organisation and
the culture that you're trying
to build in your systems team.
So everything is on the table here, right?
If you're more of
a collaborative organization,
you're probably gonna want to work with
these groups to let them have influence in
how in this case a color system is built.
If you're more on the control side,
it's actually part of the culture for
you to say actually top down
this is what we're doing?
You need to come on board, right?
So, obviously you gonna be nice about it
[LAUGH] but those are two okay approaches.
There's nothing wrong
with either of those.
But I can't tell you which one to do
because I don't know the organization well
enough to make a recommendation.
So, you'll get a chance to kind do a high
level assessment of your culture and
that'll actually lead you down
a good path for a decision there.